<<<<<<< HEAD
---
layout: post
title: "This Digital Stuff"
---

So as I'm sitting here trying to set up my first blog I can't help but to realize there may be some truth to this whole theory about how advances in technology are affecting the way people read. It took me literally four hours to set this up when it should have only taken one. Why? Because I was reading the instructions on my laptop while trying to set the blog up also on my laptop. So, I had to keep toggling back and forth between pages and tabs and minimizing and maximizing screens. There were too many distractions on my laptop like all the tabs open and constant notifications from Facebook and other running apps. I can't help but think this would have been easier had I just printed out the instructions.
  In a Scientific American article by Ferris Jabr, the effects of reading on paper vs screens was discussed. It was mentioned how reading comprehension seems to be better when people read on paper. Of course, there were studies to debunk this claim but also some that supported it. In my experience, most notable today when I was reading the blog setup instructions, I had to constantly go back and re-read the same page. Sure I've done that while also reading printed books but not nearly as much. FOUR HOURS. It took four hours! It was like my brain just didn't want to understand what the page was trying to tell me to do.
  The article mentioned there were certain aspects of reading in print that people like such as having a sense of physical location. For example, recollecting a certain scene from a book is easier to find because you have page numbers and chapters and a better sense of when it happened in relation to the rest of the book, On an internet page, the only sense of location is essentially from the scroll bar which isn't always visible. I'm almost certain the main reason it took me so long to setup the blog was because I not only was re-reading the same page but I had to go searching through all the different pages to find the particular instruction I was looking for. I couldn't remember which page I had originally read it on. When you have over 20 tabs open, that is not a fun task.
=======
So as I'm sitting here trying to set up my first blog I can't help but to realize there may be some truth to this whole theory about how advances in technology are affecting the way people read. It took me literally four hours to set this up when it should have only taken one. Why? Because I was reading the instructions on my laptop while also trying to set the blog up on my laptop. So, I had to keep toggling back and forth between pages and tabs and minimizing and maximizing screens. There were too many distractions on my laptop such as all the open tabs and constant notifications from facebook and other running apps. I can't help but think this would have been easier had I just printed out the instructions. 
  In a Scientific American article by Ferris Jabr, the effects of reading on paper vs screens was discussed. It was mentioned how reading comprehension seems to be better when people read on paper. Of course, there were studies to debunk this claim but also some that supported it. In my experience, most notably today when I was reading the blog setup instructions, I had to constantly go back and re-read the same page because I didn't understand it the first time. Sure I've done that while also reading printed books but not nearly as much. FOUR HOURS. It took four hours! It was like my brain just didn't want to understand what the instructions page was trying to tell me to do. 
  The article also mentioned there were certain aspects of reading in print that people like such as having a sense of physical location. For example, recollecting where a certain scene in a book happened is easier to find in physical books because you have the entire book as a reference. Whereas on an internet page, the only sense of location is essentially from the scroll bar which isn't always visible. I'm almost certain the main reason it took me so long to setup the blog was because I not only was re-reading the same pages of instructions but I had to search through all the different pages to find a particular instruction I had already read. I couldn't remember which page I had originally read it on. When you have over 20 tabs open, that is not a fun task. 
>>>>>>> 5997148ce3b365bab47c6d89f2865a40b2eeef75
